[Back to index](../../main.md)

# 3.10 Putting It Together: Understanding Pointers

### Concept) Pointer in C
* A uniform way to generate references to elements within different data structures

### Concept) Some principles of pointers and their mapping into machine code.
#### Every Pointer has an associated type.
* ex)
  ```c
  int *ip;
  char **cpp;
  void *vp;
  ```
* Prop) Pointer types are not part of machine code.
  * They are an abstraction provided by C to help programmers avoid addressing errors.

<br>

#### Every pointer has a value.
* This value is an address of some object of the designated type.
* Special case : NULL (null ptr)

<br>

#### Pointers are created with the & operator.
* & operator can be applied to any C expression that is categorized as an lvalue.
* In the machine code, leal instruction is used to compute the expression value.

<br>

#### Pointers are dereferenced with the * operator.
* The result is a value having the type associated with the pointer. 
* Dereferencing is implemented by a memory reference, either storing to or retrieving from the specified address.

<br>

#### Arrays and pointers are closely related.
* The name of an array can be referenced (but not updated) as if it were a pointer variable.
* Array referencing (e.g., a[3]) has the exact same effect as pointer arithmetic and dereferencing (e.g., *(a+3)).
* Both array referencing and pointer arithmetic require scaling the offsets by the object size.
  * For a pointer p and an integer i,
    * p + i is computed as p + L * i where L is the size of the data type associated with p.

<br>

#### Casting from one type of pointer to another changes its type but not its value.

<br>

#### Pointers can also point to functions. (AKA functors)



### KEYWORDS
* pointer;


[Back to index](../../main.md)